let's look northward now from Israel to
Lebanon a region that has historically
been a flasho we can now talk to Andrea
tenente he's a spokesperson for the
United Nations interim force in Lebanon
better known as unifil he joins us from
their headquarters in nakura in South
Lebanon thanks for being with us Andrea
describe for us the current situation at
the border between Israel and
Lebanon at the moment and I would say
maybe even for the last couple of weeks
even a little bit longer the situation
has been tense and uh and highly
volatile uh we have been having exchange
of fire between along the Blue Line in
this area between Lebanon and Israel
there is no border between the two
countries uh for the last two weeks and
uh and sometimes very intense exchange
of fires but I would say always very
localized uh and between Lebanon Israel
along the blue line no more than 5 to 10
kilomet so uh we have been monitoring at
and we are present on the ground at the
moment with our over 10,000
troops Israel has suggested that
Hezbollah is dragging Lebanon into war
do you see any evidence of
that as I said the situation has been
tense and very concerning because of
this uh uh two weeks of exchange of
fires but it's also important to um
emphasize that uh that when we have our
discussion with the parties uh with the
Lebanese authorities with the Lebanese
Army with the IDF that's one important
role that the mission has to keep the
dialogue ongoing to to send messages uh
I don't feel that there is a real
appetite for a for a larger conflict uh
of course the problem Remains the error
the the miscalculation
but as of now it seems that as
concerning as the situation is at the
moment there is still some kind of hope
that no one wants to
escalate There's Hope but still a lot of
fear and concern as you say there's talk
of about the risk of this war spreading
involving Lebanon and perhaps other
actors in the region what would it mean
not just for the region but for the rest
of the world if this conflict were to
spread as I said this events are very
concerning because as you mentioned if
the the the conflict expands and if
conflicts become a wider conflict could
have a huge impact and it could be a
disaster uh for the not only for the the
Lebanon and Israel but for the for for
the region and and that's why the role
not only of the UN at the moment that we
are working of course day and night with
our contingents on the ground with our
Force Commander trying to deescalate the
situation but the importance of the
International Community uh involvement
of the International Community to
deescalate the situation and to have
this mediation process very active I see
everyone is very much involved and this
is the only hope that we have that uh
that we could get some kind of
deescalation based on on Regional uh
concerns but also uh mediation from from
from
everyone Andrea tenente spokesperson for
the United Nations interim force in
Lebanon thank you very much for talking
with
us thank
you